[Term Entry] Python Time Module: `.sleep()` (#1375)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/time-module/sleep.md

---
Title: '.sleep()'
Description: 'The function suspends execution of current thread for a given time.'
Subject: 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
 -'Functions'
 -'Time'
CatalogContent:
 -'learn-python'
 - 'concepts/time-module'
---

The python time module function .sleep() suspends execution of current thread for a given period of time(in seconds).

### **Syntax** 

> ```time.sleep(duration)``` 

Reviewer: For the "Syntax" section, let's replace this with a \```pseudo code block that looks like this:

\`\`\`pseudo
time.sleep(duration)
\`\`\`

> Duration is the time(in seconds) the execution will be suspended/delayed.
> 
> This will suspend execution for 23.4 seconds.
> This function is part of the python time module which handles time related tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `duration` parameter is given in seconds, and suspends/delays execution of the thread.
```

The last sentence wasn't really necessary since this term entry would be nested under the existing [`time` module concept entry](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/time-module).

> This will suspend execution for 23.4 seconds.

Where/how did we arrive at this figure? This information seems to fit better in an actual example, as opposed to the syntax.

### **Example**

> This example will delay print by 2.4 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example will delay execution of the next [`print()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/built-in-functions/print) statement by 2.4 seconds:
```

```
import time

print("Printed immediately.")
time.sleep(2.4)
print("Printed after 2.4 seconds.")
```

## Codebyte Example

> The example below will output time after a 5 second delay from current time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example will output time after a 5 second delay from current time (provided by the [`.ctime()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/time-module/ctime) function):
```

```codebyte/python

> import time
> 
> print "Start : %s" % time.ctime()
> time.sleep( 5 )
> print "End : %s" % time.ctime()
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import time

print("Start: %s" % time.ctime())
time.sleep(5)
print("End: %s" % time.ctime())
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: Remove all the extra line breaks in the metadata

Author: Made all changes after review.

Title: '.sleep()'

Description: 'The function suspends execution of current thread for a given time.'

> Subject: 'Computer Science'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subjects: 
 - 'Computer Science'
```

> Tags: 

Reviewer 2: Tags need to be from the list [here ](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). "Python" & "Time Module" aren't. Also should be "Functions", not "Function".

Also, just indent the list one space.

    -'Python'
    -'Function'
    -'Time Module'

> CatalogContent:

Reviewer 2: Indent these one space.

    - 'learn-python'
    - 'concepts/time-module'
---

> # **.sleep()**

Reviewer 2: Remove this header.

> The python time module function .sleep() suspends execution of current thread for a given period of time(in seconds).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The python time module function **`.sleep()`** suspends execution of current thread for a given period of time in seconds.
```

> ### **Syntax** 

Reviewer 2: There should be line breaks before and after headers.

> `time.sleep(23.4);` 

Reviewer 2: This line should be in a pseudo code block, Also, it should be more general, like `time.sleep(duration)` with the description explaining what `duration` is.

This will suspend execution for 23.4 seconds.
This function is part of the python time module which handles time related tasks.

> ### **Example**

Reviewer 2: There should be line breaks before and after headers.

To delay print by 2.4 seconds.

> ![image example image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/sleepimage.png)  

Reviewer 2: The example should be entered in a ```py block, not in an image.

> Here the print will be delayed for 2.4 seconds. 

Reviewer 2: Place the description before the example (and only have one of the redundant lines) and preface it with something like "This example will..."

Without the sleep function print will execute immediately without any delays.

## Codebyte Example

> 

Reviewer 2: There should be a description of what the codebyte does.
The semicolons at the end of lines are unnecessary in Python.
Can we have an example that's not an infinite loop?

---
Title: '.sleep()'
Description: 'The function suspends execution of current thread for a given time.'
Subject: 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
 -'Functions'
 -'Time'
CatalogContent:
 -'learn-python'
 - 'concepts/time-module'
---

> ### **.sleep()**

Reviewer 2: Remove this header. The metadata provides the title for the entry.

Author: Removed the header.
